All right, our second task,
our much more interesting and
important task, is to handle that
when we click on one of the tiles,
we are going to highlight the two
diagonals that that tile participates.
Note in this code comment, which is
also part of the readme instructions,
in case you've deleted it.
But note in this code comment that
we are given the tile element
reference that has been clicked
on that is taken care of by app.
So we're not gonna change
any of that app code.
We are going to be given a tile element.
If you are given no tile element, in
other words, if it comes in as undefined,
that is basically the same
thing as clearing the board.
So you saw that there's a clear button.
So if tile element comes in as undefined,
then we're gonna clear it.
In other words, we're gonna need to
clear it always and then if tile element
has been set, that's when we're
going to highlight its diagonals.
Okay, so first question is,
how do we know what possible,
where that tile was on the board?
So that we could possibly start to
figure out what diagonals it's in.
What does where it is even mean?
Well, if you think about the DOM elements
as participating in a data structure
right now,
a two-dimensional data structure where
the values are references to DOM elements.
We have an array of rows that
that array happens to also
be a DOM element, but
it is conceptually an array of rows.
That's the board element, and
then within each one of those,
we have an array of DOM elements,
which are the tiles.
So we have a two-dimensional array,
it's a data structure,
it just happens to be DOM nodes, but
that doesn't make it not a data structure.
So how do we find out where in
our data structure this specific
tile that was clicked is?
And what does where even mean?
To answer that question,
we're gonna go back to the slides.
You'll note that if I clicked on this one,
for example,
that it has a position that we
could think of like a coordinate.
Think about this grid as if
it's a coordinate system.
You're probably familiar
with XY coordinate systems,
two-dimensional coordinate systems.
We could think about the position of
the thing that was collected as having
a coordinate, and
what would that position be.
Well, if we numbered the natural
number indexing zero-based as
they would be in arrays, if we named
numbered the rows and the columns.
And we click on a specific element,
then it has a coordinate that
corresponds to the row number and
to the column number.
So we could say that
its coordinate is 4,2.
Now, some of you might be surprised
that I did 4,2 instead of 2,4,
because in traditional
Cartesian coordinates,
we typically list the horizontal component
first, and then the vertical component.
And so
in a typical Cartesian coordinate system,
we would have said 2,4 instead of 4,2,
for the same position.
There's one key reason why I did the 4,2.
And that is because we
already made a decision,
whether we were cognizant
of the decision or not.
We made a decision that we
were creating rows of columns,
rather than columns of rows.
And when we made a decision that
we were making rows of columns,
then we automatically
said that the row index,
the vertical index,
is the first most important.
It is the highest order
of the two coordinates.
So that's why we got 4,2.
Had we gone back and redone that
where we did columns of tiles or
columns of rows, then it would be 2,4.
But we would have more CSS to deal
with to get them to stack properly.
It turns out that it's really easy to make
them stack the way we wanted to make them
stack when we did rows of columns
rather than columns of rows.
So we made a decision based upon some
constraints that the DOM and/or the CSS
engine gave us.
And that may or
may not have been a good decision, but
it's the decision we made nonetheless.
At this point, we could be feeding back
into as an algorithm just asking questions
like, was that a good decision?
Should I have made that decision?
Should I have made a different decision?
Everybody following me so far?
Okay, so if we have the coordinate 4,2,
that represents where we have clicked.
Let me temporarily switch back
to the code for just a moment.
How would I get,
The tiles that I need to work with?
We have this original board element,
but that's just a DOM element.
How would I get
a two-dimensional array of them?
How would I construct the JavaScript data
structure that we could interact with?
There's a couple of
different ways to do it.
I'm not gonna suggest that there's
one right or wrong way, but
let me show you one way of doing it.
origBoardEL, this is, again,
some core DOM API stuff that most
people never get exposed to.
We have this thing
called querySelectorAll.
Anybody ever heard of querySelectorAll?
This is the less powerful
built-in version of jQuery,
that's how I like to think of it,
but only the CSS selector part.
We can give it a CSS selector, and it'll
go find matching elements to that CSS
selector, so I'm gonna give it div, div.
That's gonna say go find me all
those tiles and return me an array.
It's actually not technically an array,
it's technically this nodelist thing,
which is array like.
And we'll have a couple
places where that's okay and
a couple of other places where we turn
it into an array in order to use it.
Let's clear our currently
highlighted items.
We don't know where they are,
we haven't stored them in any way.
So the only dumb approach that
we can do to clear them is to go
through all of the tiles.
I'm gonna just say we'll clear
all currently highlighted tiles.
If we didn't clear them, each click
would highlight a different row, and
then eventually the whole
board would get read.
So we gotta clear it every time.
So I guess we could have
done the whole react thing,
which is to redraw
the whole board every time.
I'm not a big fan of that.
I'm not a big fan of rerender
the whole page with every change, so
we're gonna go ahead and just clear them.
And here's another DOM API that
you maybe haven't worked with.
The class list gives us an API for
dealing with the classes that
are currently on a DOM element.
And we're just gonna remove
the highlighted class from any of them.
So we're going through all
64 of the tile elements and
removing all of the highlighted elements.
Here's a quick little quiz to make sure
everybody's awake and paying attention.
You ready for the quiz?
How many DOM elements are we using
to represent our chessboard?
I wish I had the Jeopardy
theme music to play.
I've heard 64.
>> I've heard 65.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> You said 72?
>> Yeah, like the divs.
>> Okay.
>> 9 plus 1, what's that?
>> It's 8 times 9 plus 1.
8 times 9?
>> 9 elements plus the container for the-
>> 9 elements?
>> Yeah, cuz you have the div
container for the row, and
you have the div container for
each element in the row.
>> Okay.
>> And you have the global container.
>> So yeah, there's probably
more that they stick on us,
but that would be
the minimum we're creating.
>> Okay.
>> Lots of 65s, a couple of 73s.
>> Yeah, 73 is-
>> 73 is the correct answer.
We have 64 tiles,
we have 8 parent rows that make 72.
And we have one board element
that contains all of them.
That's 73.
You got there with different math,
but the same answer.
Okay, so we're going through
only the 64 tile elements and
removing the highlighted from all of them.
That's a bit of a brute
force way of doing it.
You can already probably imagine that
it might be nice if we had a reference
to which ones were highlighted and
we only removed the class
from the ones that had it.
But is it that big of a deal
to go through 64 versus 15?
Here's another one of the questions that
we probably should have asked about this
problem before diving into the code.
Does our code need to handle
arbitrarily sized chess boards?
In this particular case,
we're gonna say we're only
dealing with 8 by 8 chess boards.
But sometimes you get presented with
a problem and they're like, well,
what about the 317 by 317 chess board?
How does it work then?
There are problems like that.
There's classic algorithmic problems like
the n queens problem and stuff like that,
that deal with arbitrarily sized boards.
That's a question that we need to ask.
Those are fundamental characteristics
of the problem that change
the way we approach this.
If we had to deal with n-sized
chessboards, we might not just be
willing to do a loop over all the possible
tiles if it could be millions.
Here, we know it's fixed at 64,
so not that big a deal.
We still wanna fix it, but
it's not that big a deal.
Okay, so fundamentally what we need,
if tile element has been clicked,
because we're gonna clear it every time,
but
we're only gonna do highlighting
if title element was clicked.
Fundamentally, what we need to do
here is figure out the coordinate of
the tile that was clicked.
Does everybody agree with that?
Does that makes sense?
I need the rowIndex and the columnIndex
of the tile that was clicked.
So I need a rowIndex, and
I need a columnIndex.
How are we gonna figure that out?
So let's go back to the slides for
a moment,
and let's observe the rowIndex.
So that is the 4 here.
If that's the thing
that we had clicked on,
the rowIndex is the position of that
tile's row parent in the board element.
The board element only has eight children,
this one, this one, this one,
this one and this one right here.
If you were to do the dominance vector and
expand it out,
you would see that the board element
has eight row elements in it.
So if I wanted to know what is the index,
then I just need to know
what is my row parent?
And then I need to ask of the board,
what index is
this row element in
the board's child nodes?
Once I find the row element,
the columnIndex is pretty straightforward,
because the row element
has child nodes in it, and
I just need to ask which index are you
at within the row elements child?
So really,
all that we need to do is actually
find the row element,
rowEl for the tileEl.
Turns out this is quite convenient,
there's a thing called parentNode.
Just to be slightly more precise here,
I'm gonna just change these variable
names to rowIndex and columnIndex.
Now, remember that I said that
this thing is not a real array.
But I wanna do some index searching in it,
so
I'm gonna need to turn
it into a real array.
So the way that I'm gonna turn it into
a real array is to say, or actually,
not that thing into a real array, for
the rowIndex, I need to turn origBoard,
El.childNodes, I need to
turn that into a real array.
And then I can call findIndex on it,
where the element is equal to the rowEl.
Let's put that into a second line so
you can see I'm calling.
Do it this way.
The first thing I'm doing is trying
to get into a real array, and
then I'm calling findIndex on it,
and I'm giving it a function.
That only returns true once I
find that particular rowEl.
A smaller, more compact way of
doing this is indexOf(rowEl).
So whichever one you prefer,
we can do that.
ColumnIndex is pretty straightforward,
we just need to take the rowEl.childNodes
and do the same thing.
That'll tell us our index,
that'll tell us our 4,2 coordinate.